https://arcg.is/1jaWuj0

The data source for the web map is the American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates for the year 2021 by State, which I found in the Tiger/Line with Selected Demographic and Economic Data section of census.gov. As far as how I created it, I started by deciding which variables I wanted to compare, which I was able to find among the Educational Attainment and Income data tables. The two variables are PBach and P200+, which represent PERCENTAGE OF THE POPULATION 18 AND OVER WITH BACHELOR'S DEGREES and PERCENTAGE OF HOUSEHOLDS THAT MAKE $200,000 OR MORE respectively. Both are derived values that, in this particular instance, don't account for margin of error. Given that the focus of this assignment is to visualize, I hope this is acceptable. I derived PBach by combining the estimated amount of bachelor's degree attainees from each age group together and dividing by the estimated total population 18 and older. P200+ was derived by dividing the estimated number of households with a net income of $200,000 or more by the estimated total number of households. Both values were rendered as percentages according to the Number Format I set in the Fields View. To accomplish my visualization, I joined the two data tables of interest to my US States and Territories shapefile. After that, I set the symbology to a bivariate color scheme, with a 4x4 grid and a quantile distribution. As far as my findings, it seems that the proportion of Bachelor's Degree owners 18 and older doesn't strongly correlate with the proportion of homes with an income of $200,000 or more. For example, states like Florida, Texas, and Arizona have a higher percentage of $200,000+ households despite having lower percentage of bachelor's degree owners. On the other hand, states such as California, Illinois, and New York, have both high percentages of Bachelor's Degree owners and households with an income of $200,000 and above. Clearly there are other factors at play, with the unique opportunities for income available in each state perhaps influencing the demand or need for a bachelor's degree. Furthermore, individuals may get their degree in one state yet ultimately live in another.
